---
layout: default
---
## Placeholder for Data Privacy Impact

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2013/05/21/self-driving-cars-are-a-privacy-nightmare-and-its-totally-worth-it/?utm_term=.6cafd528aeed 
 https://www.bryancave.com/en/thought-leadership/self-driving-vehicles-at-a-glance.html 
http://www.autoblog.com/2015/05/12/self-driving-cars-privacy-bigger-concern-than-safety/ 
http://www.govtech.com/fs/Cybersecurity-Privacy-and-Safety-Among-Self-Driving-Car-Concerns-Raised-During-Senate-Hearing.html 
	
One of the biggest concerns that is being ignored regarding self-driving cars is privacy. The amount of data that a self-driving car collects should definitely worry people. A self-driving car heavily depends on high tech sensors and precise GPS data for its guidance around the road; meaning it is constantly storing and sending data. These data range from how fast you’re driving, where you’re driving to, and how often you’re driving there. You might be asking yourself, what kind of harm can come from these data? This is where things can become worrisome. As of now there is no adequate protections for consumers regarding personal information according to a report issued by Government Accountability Office. Automotive companies are also very closed about their use of individual data. This means automotive companies can convey anyone of its client’s driving habits to his/her insurance companies without their client’s approval. Also, there is a chance for your personal information about where you’ve been on the weekends to be used to against you in a divorce case. Now you may be thinking, this data mining can be avoided if the central computer processing these data were installed on the vehicle and no on the companies. You would be correct if this was true. You’re forgetting that self-driving cars are operated by computer codes, and like all codes there are bugs waiting to be exploited. Due to these safety concerns, it only makes sense that companies would want to release their updates by the means of satellite rather than having to recall all the vehicles. Therefore, it’ll be likely that self-driving vehicles will be tracked wherever it goes by companies. the increase in data storage will most likely draw in unwanted third party hackers. The motives of hackers aren’t usually money, but rather having the power to do whatever they want. Now with vehicles being completely reliant on algorithms and codes, they more vulnerable to hackers. The danger doesn’t lie in the fact that you have important information to hide, but the fact that someone else/thing, without consulting you, knows all these things about you. Also, not knowing what or where these information is being used can feel violating. Maybe George Orwell correctly predicted the future with his famous book 1984, because with the release of self-driving cars someone will always be watching/knowing where you are.
All of this tracking and data collecting sounds terrible, but don’t worry too much about it because this has been going on far longer than you know. The tracking technology used in self-driving cars are already in use in our cellphones. The only additional thing coming from self-driving cars is more control will be given to the government. But that’s not important, right? All we care about is the amount of lives that are saved and most of all not having to drive. This is where you the read must decide to retain all this information or simply discard it because it is irrelevant. 




